# actions-runner-controller v0.24.0

All changes in this release can be found in the milestone https://github.com/actions/actions-runner-controller/milestone/4

This log documents breaking and major enhancements

## Upgrading

In case you're using our Helm chart to deploy ARC, use the chart 0.19.0 or greater. Don't miss upgrading CRDs as usual! Helm doesn't upgrade CRDs.

## BREAKING CHANGE : Support for `--once` is being dropped

> **Warning**: If you're using ARC's official runer image, make sure to update the image tag to `v2.292.0` BEFORE upgrading ARC

In #1385 we changed ARC to NOT automatically set the feature flag `RUNNER_FEATURE_FLAG_EPHEMERAL=true`. If you're using ARC's official runer image, make sure to update the image tag to `v2.292.0` before upgrading ARC, because that's the first runner image release since we changed the default to `--ephemeral`. If you kept using an older runner image after upgrading ARC, you end up using `--once` which is unreliable and had been deprecated since almost a year ago.

>> **Warning**: If you're using a custom runner image, incorporate changes made in #1384 to your runner image dockerfile

If you're building a custom runner image on your own and it still requires the user to specify `RUNNER_FEATURE_FLAG_EPHEMERAL=true` to use `--ephemeral`, check #1384 and update your custom runner image dockerfile accordingly. Otherwise, you may unexpectedly end up with using `--once` after upgrading ARC, because that was the previous default.

Relevant PR(s): #1384, #1385

## FIX : Prevent runner from stucking in Terminating when the container disappeared

We occasionally heard about runner pods stuck in Terminating after the node and containers running on it disappeared due to, for example, the machine terminated prematurely.

We now set runner pods' restartPolicy to `Never` and remove runner pods stuck in `Waiting` after restarting, so that the pods are more likely to NOT stuck forever.

Relevant PR(s): #1395, #1420

## ENHANCEMENT : Support arbitrarily setting `privileged: true` for runner container

This is a frequently asked feature that allows you to force `privileged: true` in case you don't need docker but still need privileged tasks to be run in a job step.

In combination with a container runtime like `sysbox` this should enable you to run docker builds within the dind sidecar, all without privileges. See [the discussion related to Sysbox](https://github.com/actions/actions-runner-controller/discussions/977) for more information.

Note that we ARC maintainers still have no bandwidth to provide a complete description of how to make ARC work with `sysbox` yet, but almost certainly we'd welcome contributions to the documentation if you managed to make it work.

Relevant PR(s): #1383

## ENHANCEMENT : RunnerSet can now retain PVs across restarts

This enhancement makes it more practical to use RunnerSet in combination with `volumeClaimTemplates` to make your workflow jobs faster.

Please see our updated ["Custom Volume Mounts" section in the documentation](https://github.com/actions/actions-runner-controller#custom-volume-mounts) for more information. Currently, we cover caching Docker image layers, go mod/build, and PV-backed runner work directory(Although this one is backed by another feature unrelated to this enhancement under the hood).

Relevant PR(s): #1340

## ENHANCEMENT : OpenSSF scorecard adoption

We assessed the project's security by following OpenSSF scorecard checks and adopting OpenSSF best practices.
It should help you judge the security throughout ARC's development and release processes.

Relevant PR(s): #1461
